many people myself included for
a while assume that women have a
higher tolerance for pain
because well we give birth but
science actually tells us a
completely different story
hi guys and gals will set here
for dnews
now I'm sorry but it's true
research shows that men have
both a higher pain tolerance and
higher threshold for pain and
studies women typically report
feeling pain much sooner than
men and women also tell
experimenters to stop the pain
that's been inflicted on them
much sooner than men do
and this all comes from data
analyzed in multiple studies
that spanned a period of more
than a decade many of which have
been published in the Journal of
pain
now researchers study painting
using all kinds of tortures
methods some of the more common
ways they inflict pain on
participants include putting
really cold things directly on
the skin
administering electric shocks
and putting a lot of physical
pressure on different parts of
the participants body in one
study at the University of
lincoln in the UK
researchers subjected 24 men and
26 women too cold presses and
measure their responses
consistent with other studies
they found that women had a
lower tolerance and lower
threshold for pain compared to
men but the scientists took the
study even further when the
researchers told the
participants to focus on the
physical components of the pain
it help decrease the pain felt
for men but not for women and
when they ask them to focus on
the emotional aspects of the
pain
it made the pain feel worse for
women but not for men
so for women it's like a double
whammy they seem to feel more
pain were quickly and have a
harder time coping with it too
but what's important to keep in
mind is that most of these
studies rely on self-reports
which means they are susceptible
to bias ease pain is largely
defined by science as subjective
we rely on people to tell us how
much pain they feel and when
they feel it as opposed to
measuring it more directly like
we do with height or weight
not surprisingly studies have
found that social factors
influence these reports of pain
and the gender difference we see
in one study published in
cross-cultural research on
college students from both India
and the u.s.
researchers found that Americans
were more willing to express
that they're in pain than their
indian counterparts and this is
reflected in how much pain they
reported American students
tolerated less pain than indian
students
meaning that both sets of
students could have been feeling
the same
I mean but for cultural reasons
one group expressed it quicker
than the other
on top of that things like who's
conducting the experiment seemed
to matter to in another recent
study published in the journal
pain
researchers had 80 male and a
female participants put their
hands and icy cold water to
measure their tolerance but the
researchers split the
participants so half of them had
the test conducted by someone of
the same sex and have had
someone of the opposite sex
the study found that how long
they kept their hand underwater
significantly varied depending
on whether the experimenter was
a man or a woman have tested by
the opposite sex they lasted
much longer
clearly there are mediating
social factors that influence
pain but this doesn't mean
biology doesn't play a role to
another study published in the
journal pain measured pay not by
asking the participants how much
pain he felt but by measuring
how their people's behaved with
infrared technology
researchers hypothesize that the
amount of ppl dilated directly
correlated with how much pain
they were in and conditions of
high pressure or pain women's
pupils dilated much more than
men's
this matters because it's not
like the participants could
manipulate how much their pupils
are dilating
this is a completely involuntary
biological reaction so it might
just be that men and women feel
pain differently but some men
and women don't feel pain at all
find out why in this video nerve
cells communicate by sodium ions
as these ions get passed through
channels from one cell to the
next the pain signals travel
from the injury site where it's
felt up the spinal cord and into
the brain but a mutation in the
SC and nine a gene stops these
channels called nab one point
seven channels from forming
so what do you think about the
research do you have any qualms
let us know in the comments
below and remember to subscribe
to dnews for more episodes
yeah